# The Wisdom of My Cat

This world is perfect for my cats.

They have nothing really important to be worried about. They have food, the have places to sleep, they have a patio to chase for insects. They have a ton of free time and.. Boredom.

This goes on, day after day of their lives.

They just... Are.

There's nothing particularly important that they do, other than just be themselves.

Their sole existence, just watching them be innocent and nonchalant makes me feel a little fuzzy inside.

I feel like I used to be like them.

I used to be free-er, to just be and exist. With no particular plan. With no high level expectation or obligation. I just did me, and my imagination drove the wheel.

Today I could've been like my cats, but for some reason I feel this background application making noise. It repeats that I have to do something productive. That I need to be doing this, or be doing that.

Does it matter though?

If my cats feel sleepy... They just sleep. If they feel bored, they wonder around.

What's productive for them? Literally that word doesn't even make sense in their world.

Are my cats happy? That also doesn't even make sense in their world.

They *are* nature, they just exist. Like the trees exist, like the grass their sitting on exists. Like the bugs that they hunt. 

They have perfected it. They're more successful than the most accomplished monk. More successful than the richest man on the planet. They *are*, by definition, free.

What's more astonishing: They didn't even have to work for it. They are, one with it.

I have to admit that I feel a bit of envy for them.

Am I too different, though? Why would I ever have to worry if I was like them?

If I just existed instead of survived. If I blended with nature instead of fight it.

Today the rest of my day isn't meant or destined to be particularly "productive" either. If I were to embody the spirit that drives La Negra to be particularly unique, what would I do?

I would create. I would learn. I would explore. Because that's natural to me.

What would she advice me to do?

She would look at me, saying absolutely nothing (of course, she can't talk).

And just blink her eyes a couple of times...

And if I'm careful enough to listen, then I'd understand.

She is smarter than me. Way smarter.

The real wisdom is hidden in the things we discard the most – which is part of the dualistic nature of reality.

Of course saying my cat is smarter than me sounds like gibberish.

Until you sit and listen to her, and she reveals you the path to eudaemonia.

Then you look around, and see it everywhere. No words required.
